feat: blog post postgrest 13 (#38840)
supabase/supabase: apps/www/_blog/2025-09-18-postgrest-13-release.mdx

    "actors": ["Christian Bale", "Heath Ledger"],
    "genres": ["Drama", "Crime", "Action"]
  }
]
```

You can now do it this way:

```js
const { data, error } = await supabase.from('titles').select(`
    title:primary_title,
    ...people(actors:primary_name),
    ...genres(genres:name)
  `)
```

The above `...people` is “spreading” the many-to-many relationship between `titles` and `people`, forming a flat array only consisting of the `primary_name` column. This flat array is then renamed to `actors`. We do a similar process for `genres` , which also forms a many-to-many relationship with `people`.

You can see the data model used for this example on this [gist](https://gist.github.com/steve-chavez/93f7ae04b4323e1952710af7129b32cf). There are more details about this feature on the [official docs](https://docs.postgrest.org/en/v13/references/api/resource_embedding.html#spread-to-many-relationships).

## Automatic tsvector convertion

Previously you could only use the full text search operator on `tsvector` columns, now you can do it on `text` columns too:

```js
const { data, error } = await supabase.from('titles').textSearch('primary_name', `'god' & 'father'`)
```

> This works because `text` columns will be automatically converted with `to_tsvector`.

Reviewer: this is very cool steve

i imagine it will be quite slow since there is not pre-build index? should we still recommend they create a generated column/index if they are using this frequently?

Author: Thanks for catching that :pray: . Added a note mentioning an index.

## Max Affected

You can now limit to the amount of rows affected by an `update` or `delete` operation with `maxAffected`:

```js
const { data, error } = await supabase
  .from('people')
  .update({ primary_name: 'Marlon Brando Jr.' })
  .eq('nconst', 'nm0000008')
  .maxAffected(1)
```

If the rows affected by the operation surpass the limit in `maxAffected`, an error will be thrown.

This also works with `rpc()`, given that it modifies rows and returns the affected rows. More on details on the [official docs](https://docs.postgrest.org/en/v13/references/api/preferences.html#max-affected).

## Content-Length header

For observability, you can now verify the response body size in bytes in the `Content-Length` header.

> ```bash
> 
> HTTP/1.1 200 OK
> Content-Length: 104
> Content-Location: /items
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Length: 104
Content-Location: /items
```
```

This helps in cases where you want to know which requests consume the most traffic to avoid exceeding egress limits.

## Proxy-Status header

The PostgREST error code is now present in the `Proxy-Status` header.

```bash
HTTP/1.1 406 Not Acceptable
Proxy-Status: PostgREST; error=PGRST116
```

> You can check this header and the Content-Length one the Supabase Logs Explorer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check the `Proxy-Status` and `Content-Length` headers in the Supabase Logs Explorer.
```

## Breaking Changes

> ### Limited Update/Delete

Author: > was anything actually removed/breaking here? Or is it more of a suggestion to move to max affected?

Right there isn't something actually breaking here (no error given), so I've removed this section. I think it's enough to have `maxAffected` as a feature, and that's already included above.

> It could also be good to add tabs which have the cURL request?

This is now done for all snippets. Also included swift snippets.

Previously on v12, you could limit the updated or deleted affected rows with a combination of the `limit()` and `order()` methods.

```js
const { data, error } = await supabase
  .from('people')
  .update({ primary_name: 'Marlon Brando Jr.' })
  .eq('primary_name', 'Marlon Brando')
  .limit(1)
  .order('nconst')
```

But this never gave an error, it only did the equivalent of a `UPDATE .. LIMIT` SQL statement. It also required adding a PK in the `order` method, which was a confusing interface.

> To do this now, you should use the new Max Affected instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do this now, you should use the new `Max Affected` instead.
```

> ### JWT kid validation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### JWT `kid` validation
```

> PostgREST now validates the JWT `kid` claim. If your JWT contains a `kid`, it will try to match the `kid` of one of the keys in the configured JSON Web Key Set. Check the [official docs](https://docs.postgrest.org/en/v13/references/auth.html#jwk-kid-validation) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostgREST now validates the JWT `kid` claim. If your JWT contains a Key ID (`kid`), it will try to match this with one of the `kid`'s in the configured JSON Web Key Set. Check the [official docs](https://docs.postgrest.org/en/v13/references/auth.html#jwk-kid-validation) for more details.
```

If you use Supabase Auth or the CLI to create JSON Web Keys, you shouldn’t worry about this change. For users that integrate with other Auth systems, check that both your JWT and JWKS follow the above rules.

### Schema validation in PostgREST search path

> The schemas inside `db-schemas` and `db-extra-search-path` are now validated. This means you cannot put a nonexistent schema there, if you do PostgREST will faill with an error message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The schemas inside `db-schemas` and `db-extra-search-path` are now validated. This means you cannot put a nonexistent schema there, if you do PostgREST will fail with an error message.
```

questions:

- what happens if people upgrade and the schema doesnt exist? will the upgrade fail?
- what happens if someone drops a schema after it's been added to PostgREST?
